What data types do each of these values represent?

  "A Clockwork Orange" - string
  42 - integer
  09/02/1945 - date
  98.7 - float
  $15.99 - money

Explain in your own words when a database might be used. Explain when a text file might be used.

  A database would be used when data needs to persist after the application is closed and has multiple instances
  of the application running simultaneously. A text file would be used when the need for human readability and the
  ability to edit records manually arises.


Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

  SQL is a declarative instead of procedural programming language.

In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

  A database consists of rows and columns. Each column indicates what data is stored in that column (i.e. name, id, email etc)
  and each row contains a particular instance of that data (i.e. a specific users' name , id, email, etc).

Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

  A table is the representation of a database. Each row pertains to a particular instance of data. Each column indicates the
  data which is stored in rows. The value of data is what is contained at each intersection of the rows/columns.

List 3 data types that can be used in a table.

  string, integer, float

Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

  SELECT date, amount
  FROM payments;

  Will return the date of a payment and the amount of the payments from the table of payments.

  SELECT amount
  FROM payments
  WHERE amount > 500;

  Will return the instances of payments where the payment was >500

  SELECT *
  FROM payments
  WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';

  Will return all instances of payments where the payee was Mega Foods.

Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

  The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.

    SELECT email, signup
    FROM users
    WHERE name = "DeAndre Data"

  The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.

    SELECT userid
    FROM users
    WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'


  All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.

    SELECT *
    FROM users
    WHERE userid = 4
